# Overall about BlackPerico
-Having CyberFunk project finished and studying HTML & CSS concluded, it was time to delve deeper into this field. My next step was studying JavaScript for which purpose this project was made. Starting this project I did not plan on how this website should look like overall, what functionalities it should have or how its structure should be. 
Knowing nothing of JavaScript, only thing I had at start were thoughts and ideas of all the possibilities on how an element could look like, how it should behave with user interaction and what it should present to the user. So, creating these elements at start and trying to make them interactive in an amusing yet useful way presented quite an challenge, which I overcame by learning online object by object, property by property, method by method. Using everything I have read and learnt I started expressing my ideas in code by either solidifying or supplementing my knowledge. Working on this project while trying to make an interesting yet useful environment on website I have advanced my creativity and problem-solving skills.
-Aside from putting effort in trying to create an maintainable, readable, optimized and well-structured code, no less time did I spend reading articles online about good coding practices, refactoring, Git. Following that, most of the code have been refactored in order to either make it more readable, maintainable or make it more dynamic adding new functionalities. Next new tools I learnt throughout my work on this project are JSON and AJAX. Discovering ways to communicate with server, receiving and sending data or dynamically adding server's reponse to update the page, opened so many new possibilities for me to enhance users experience while they navigate through pages of my website. As my website is supossed to act as an online shop, data about all the products present in it are written in an JSON file. I have used Git Bash to push my project on GitHub as I was working.
-Lacking a bit of more appropriate styles and colors my project today presents an very flexible-coded fully responsive website fitted for both small and big screens. Navigating through website is easy and each page is filled with certain elements. Every of these elements has it's own authentic look and responsive behaviours, also featuring functionalities in order to make them more interactive and fun for user and allow certain actions.
# Important
-This project is made strictly for JavaScript practising so big part of CSS-creativity and styling is put aside this time as this website is supossed to only reflect my level of JS knowledge. No effort and time is put into styling elements further into modern, minimalistic, smooth, sleek, catchy looks with good color schemes so they are left at barely acceptable standards (just so they can allow me to present certain data in it and give me space for further working and expanding its functionalities in JavaScript), as the primary focus has been studying JavaScript and getting familiar with vast majority of built-in objects and their methods, working with different kinds of objects, AJAX, server communication(JSON), storage APIs,... But even so, this website and every element in it is responsive and will fit both smaller and wider screens with no mistakes or bugs. The overall look of website does NOT reflect my creativity and CSS practises but the way I solved the problems I faced working with those elements in JavaScript to either implement certain functionalities or make animations and interactive events.
## What BlackPerico offers/How it works
-Data about every product present on the website is stored inside separate *JSON file products.json. So every product is asynchronously added to certain element on the page by either using fetch request or XMLHttpRequest object. If there were items to add or remove all it would take is this files editing.
-Every page has *header and *footer elements which contain logo, h1 title for better SEO, and basic information about 'company'.
-Below Header there is a *navigation bar that's always fixed to the top. It contains Menu 'button', when clicked it opens/closes menu from left side that offer all links to every page on website. Next are Home and Shop links, where link to shop takes user to page where all possible products' pages are presented. Following that there is last element in nav bar, search bar. When user types in something, everything typed will be saved inside an array which is then looped through and every word is compared to each product's name/title which we got as response from the server. If every word user typed in is contained inside product's name/title that product will be displayed, maximum 5 of them at a time.

Home page:
1) ad:
-Inside JSON file, adsContainer property holds array of objects where each one presents an ad to be displayed with all necessary attributes. When server responds this array is looped through and for each object inside there's a dot html element being created asynchronously and dynamically using promises. HTML Element container (ad) is a simple responsive container that is meant to display image of an ad inside it and hold array of 'dots' which serve as a link for other advertising images. Each dot element created represents an ad, upon clicking dot, corresponding advertising image will be displayed inside container. In CSS, animations are declared so switching between images of ads is done in an smooth fashion by fading previous image and sliding in next. These ads (images) are looped through automatically with certain cycle time but are also user-selectable. Upon cycling through ads there's a condition, if selected ad is after the current one animations will go from left to right, and in other case it will go from right to left. As every advertising image has its own dot element, currently displayed image will have its dot element standing out from rest of them.
2) main-menu:
-This HTML element is supossed to act as an menu offering links to other pages sorted out in classes. Horizontal container having 2 child elements, each taking 50% of total width. Colorful element with CSS animations that work on hover sliding in overlay that contains links. As it is responsive it goes vertically on phones for better fit.
3) games-container:
-Used to display 8 games, it has 3 child elements. Two being container that holds 4 elements vertically displaying picture, title and description for each. And third element being container between these 2 on which currently selected game will be displayed with title, additional description, price and buy button. Array of side elements is looped through automatically, and have CSS animation that loads element from left to right as timer goes. Newly 'selected' side element's attributes are collected and used to display it on center element.
-Data about all the games to be displayed here are present in JSON file under gamesContainer property name that holds array of objects, each representing game and holding property names like 'title', 'date', 'price', 'image', 'src', 'alt'. Their values are collected and with that data HTML elements are created and filled dynamically using promises.
-All container's childs are responsive, they will shrink to acceptable size and then change. Side elements are deleted and games elements are put into single drag-scrollable container taking 100% width above center element that now take 100% width aswell.
4) category:
-Container html element that is filled with 8 products. Each product is displayed as it's picture that has footer displaying it's name. If name doesn't fit, on hover it will start slowly moving to side to fully display it. After certain time following hover exit title will start going slowly back into former position. Upon clicking on this footer-like element, it will expand to the top of this picture, which is blurred now, revealing the rest of this element containing description and buy button. Category html element is responsive, in a way it will shrink but content inside it wont change much, content that overflows will be hidden but this container will become scrollable by dragging.
-Data about the products to be displayed here are stored inside products.json under 'category' property name that holds an array of objects. These objects are actual products with their properties. This element is filled with these products using promise.
5) cart:
-When all previous promises are fullfilled, meaning every product on page is displayed, now we can add cart and buying functionality. So we create script tag and add cart.js link. Now we have clickable buy-buttons on page. On click cart icon's animation is fired, data about 'bought' product is first collected either from that html element's attributes or text inside it and then stored inside localStorage with correct order number, title, description and price. Also inside cart container each 'bought' product is displayed with correct order number in ascending way, title, price and remove button. When remove button is clicked that element is deleted and item from localStorage with that same order number is deleted and icon's animation is fired. Cart's container holding 'bought' products can be kept closed/open by clicking cart's icon, it's current display CSS property's value is stored inside sessionStorage so user can navigate through pages without it being intrusive. We can navigate through website and buy products from different pages safely as cart's container is filled with items from localStorage on load.

Shop pages:
-Each shop page is of same structure different only by products shown. Inside an h2 tag is the name of products e.g 'Mouses', 'GPU', 'CPU',... That name is collected and converted to lowercase. When products.json is requested, after response is received, it is searched for object with that property name. This array of objects is then looped through and for each one product-html element is created on page with corresponding properties' values filled inside as either text or html attributes. After html elements are created they are looped through checking if their description can fit inside its container. If description text's height is bigger than of container's scrollbar html element is added and it's functionality attached to it. If product html element has an scrollbar, scrollbar will be moved as response to our mouse movement when dragging text. Product html elements can change their widths as they are responsive, so each time window is resized it is checked if scrollbar needs to be added/removed.
-After that html elements-products are again looped through and every of their html attributes are collected. From these attributes are now created filters, filter-by names and attributes they can possibly hold. Next to every possible attribute (checkbox) is an number that represents how many displayed products have that attribute. When under each filter-by name an checkbox is checked products are filtered so only products that have html attribute with checked attribute's name are displayed. Each number next to checkbox is now updated as only displayed products are taken into account.
-Now there are filters present and working, sorting by price is added with 2 possible options: ascending & descending. When any of these is selected products are looped through, their prices are compared and products are sorted.
-When either any checkbox from filters or sorting option is selected there is new text displayed on the page 'Remove filters'. This text serves as reset button, when clicked all checkboxes are left unchecked and products go in their original order not sorted anymore.
-By using promises, when all of the above is created and set, cart.js is loaded into the page so now every product present is purchasable.
-Pages are fully responsive, products-html elements can shrink and have more columns or expand but in fewer columns. Also filters that are placed left can be hidden on certain screens in which case there is new HTML element-filter icon displayed. Upon clicking it filters will show but as an overlay with slightly different style. Clicking on overlay or 'x' will close it.
## Technologies used
-HTML
-CSS
-Javascript
-AJAX
-JSON
-Git Bash
## References used for studying
-W3Schools.com
-Javascript.info
-Mozilla Developer Network
-Pluralsight.com (at start for basics, 2-3 months)